Okay. This is Suzanne Snyder on April 5, 2011, with Joni Blank and Lee Davidson, and we're at Swan's Way in Joni Blank's home, and I'm gonna ask both Joni and Lee to introduce themselves. Okay. I'm Joni Blank, as Suzanne said, and I was born on the 4th of July in 1937, which is why I'm so independent, I'm told. I'm the person I'm...  My main claim to fame is that I started good vibration. There's a lot of people know about that. But a lot of people don't realize that I also ran a small publishing company. Some people know about my books, but they don't know about the publishing part of it. And that's a good start, I hope. My name is Lee Davidson. I was born in 1946 in Rhode Island. Growing up I always said I wanted to do something with books and languages when I grew up.  So I guess that's what I did. I worked in the publishing world for several years and also did some financial work. And that's what I'm doing now. Great. Thank you. And I would love to start by asking you to try and remember how you two met. I hope you remember Lee because I don't. Well, I think we.  met through another publisher Ruth Godstein, who is the publisher of volcano press. And she also had a company that did group book exhibits at book shows like American booksellers. She would go to the Belonia Book Fair and the Frankfurt Book Fair. And I believe Joni would send down their press books as part of this group exhibit. And at some point.  point, I guess I meant, Joni. Does that sound familiar? That sounds familiar, Nat. Well, it sounds plausible, but I don't remember it. There was also the fact that Joni, I think, had gone away or gone back east for a year. And one of the books she had published, Period, had really taken off and she felt that she couldn't...  keep it going from a distance. So she sold the rights or something to volcano press. And I guess she came in when she got back to the West Coast and we talked, maybe that was the first time I actually met you. I remember that. Well, I know we're going to talk about the several ways in which both of you have been part of publishing world and feminism and sexuality and...  Before we even do that, I wanted to know if I could learn a little bit more about your very early life. I'm going to go first. My life is longer than laser. I'll only tell you about the earliest part. I thought a lot about how I ended up in working in the sexuality field period before I even opened the store. I think the thing that's most relevant to bring up here is what I recall when I tell my sixth history, which I've done till small and large groups.  over the years doing workshops and things is the ways in which my family, growing up in my family, encouraged me to be comfortable with sex, much more comfortable with sexuality. Less so my own sexuality, but talking about it was not a big deal for me and that's because my parents were that way, both my mother and my father were very open. Comfortable with nudity, I mean not much was known about the way sexuality function my mother was born in 192, my father, I mean 194, my father and I think too.  and even though they were progressive people who were well-read, nobody knew much about sexual response or any of that kind of stuff. And I'll tell you one little anecdote that I'm after giving my sex history to many groups of various sizes as a part of leading workshops and was eliciting those stories from others. I decided it would be fun to tell my parents my sex history the way I tell it to these strangers and ask them.  So they came to visit. I was already living in California. They came from the east coast to visit. And my husband and I, and my two parents, sat around. I told them my sex history. And my mother listened to Careful Lay and one of the things she learned was that I didn't learn about masturbation until I was almost 24 years old. After I had had my first sexual encounter with another person. And she was apparently shocked to hear this surprised. And I said to her afterwards, um.  How come you didn't encourage or tell my sister about masturbation or find some way of letting us know that it was an option and she said, well, I just assumed you were doing it since you were little, doesn't everybody? It's a kind of parents I had. So that's a little bit about my really. I grew up in a suburb of Boston. And I lived several different places and worked as a health educator and health departments and from the time I was trained in health education, around three months, um, perhaps taking care of yourself, thinking social, tastes, chicken towards summer, mainly driving and reinvented conscience. So these policies are ranked overwhelmingly above the government's last period and it's ultimately ranked once to a new language and then to which it also takes to state in the fiscal administration and around that. Well, the Baltimore law expressed a promise last year it can't be recognized of even the theory  interested in family planning in particular. I did that for quite some time until I got hooked into the sex field after I moved to California. I also did that when I first came to California and then switched into working in sex through a couple of kind of fluky things. But in terms of it being a career path for me, I was really aware that one of the reasons that people were having a hard time being effective contraceptors and having hard  time with decisions about sexuality was because, I mean, about their pregnancy and birth control and their decisions about child bear and all that kind of stuff, was that they were really uncomfortable with their sexuality or just didn't know very much about it. And so that was an easy switch for me. And you mentioned that your parents were very comfortable. Do you have a sense of why they were comfortable? I actually don't know that. I was actually, I think my mother was probably more more comfortable than my father. I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually, I was actually  I actually think it may have had something to do with them trying to be really progressive parents and reading someplace that it was okay to talk to your kids about sex, but I'm not, I don't actually know that. I think it was, I've given a lot of thought to this obviously because I've been asked about it frequently. And I think a lot of it had to do with the things I covered and the little book that I wrote for really little kids, which don't really seem to have stuff to do with sex. I have to do with parents, the way parents shall affection to one another the way parents...  parents, the way they act and feel about nudity, their reactions to things, when you're really little, one of the ones is privacy. How do they feel about privacy? And I mean, they don't teach you about that. They just show by the way they live. So for example, we always slept with our doors, my sister's door, bedroom door opened, and my parents bedroom door was always open. I retrospectively I know it was probably closed sometimes because...  They did not want us walking in on them when they were having sex probably. But so basic attitudes about sex is a normal natural thing and therefore you don't have to be getting a better. Around nudity, it was very common for both my parents to be in the shower or the bathtub and my sister, I would be sitting on the toilet talking to them at the same time. It was like, that's what you did. My parents were not nudist, they didn't.  Even in hot weather they didn't parade around with no clothes on but are they going to bed and getting asked and getting dressed and going back and forth to the bathroom Believe me one of the first time I ever learned about erections And I was shocked because I had seen my father frequently and other little kids my age. I had seen male genitals before but Rackens, oh I was quite old by then  age, you don't get to be in high school and not have some sense of what an erection is about. Even if you haven't actually seen one. And Lee, can you tell me a little bit about where you come from? Well, I grew up in Rhode Island. I think my family were not... well, I know they weren't nearly as open-minded as Jones. And I think I came into the publishing...  seen more from a women's health perspective. I mean it wasn't like I studied health or anything in school, in college. I kind of like the sciences but I also like the social sciences and I don't know. I just as I say it was books and languages and women's health and it when I landed  in San Francisco in the early 70s, I started volunteering with the Women's Needs Center, which was the Women's Program Family Planning Center for the Hadeshbury Free Clinics. And then I started working with Ruth, who was doing a lot of women's books. She did the first domestic violence book, battered wives, and brought in cess.  to public consciousness with conspiracy of silence. So she was doing a lot of women's issues. And then when she moved volcano press up to the mountains, I started to work with Joni. And that was just another aspect of women's health. So I think I, Tobaro, of a phrase that Marcy Shiner, I think, used once. I sort of felt I was the messenger taking this message that they really passionate.  people had to the rest of the world. I'm looking forward to hearing about that transition from volcano press to down their press. And maybe this is a good time to ask you, Jony, if you could tell me about creating down their press. Well, I didn't create it. It just happened. The first book I did was the playbook for women about sex. And I was leading these women's sexuality workshops, day long workshops for...  And we called it's not a secret anymore. And they were just general workshops getting people to, first of all, share their sex histories and now learning about the saturated bonsai co and fantasy, you know, all this kind of stuff. And I thought it would be fun to actually teach this workshop with somebody else. And I thought it would be fun to teach it with somebody who was a lesbian. I identified as heterosexual then. And I had a good friend named Marney Hall. And I invited her over one day to see what I did in the workshops and just a chat about them.  that. And either I had the idea, we ended up not doing them together, but I had the idea that it would be fun to create like a workbook for people who couldn't come to the workshop, but they could get some of those same experiences by doing the various exercises in the workbook form. And as I described this project to her, she said that sounded really great. And we would start chatting about that instead. And I decided to do that.  I don't, I'm sure I haven't even started it at that time. Anyway, we ended up not doing workshops together. She said, you have it all together, you have a really good system here. There's not, I can't particularly add anything to it. That's my memory a little bit. And so when I came time to make the women's playbook, I was just gonna make them to initially just to hand out to people in the workshop to take home. That sort of was a, you know, a handout for the workshop. And I was gonna, you know, just gonna do a bunch of pages and just kind of staple them together  And then I decided, well, I'll print some. I'll have some printed a few, you know, maybe 100 copies and then I'll start giving them to people. This is two years before this store. I was even thought in my mind. I was working at the sex counseling program and that's how I met Marny actually. Mm-hmm. And so she said, well, why don't you just publish it like a book publisher? Oh, book publisher. Just think of some cool name and make up, you know, gotta become aあります...  I don't even know if she used the word publisher, but she should make more copies than that. Maybe a thousand or something like that. A thousand. A thousand. I didn't know anything about publishing and she didn't know much either, I guess, but I decided, okay, and I thought a little bit about the name and it came up with this cute name, down the oppress, which as you know, some people want to call down their books. And I know it's very important that it be down the oppress as in press down there. lol  And what year was this that the workbook? The first playbook when this playbook came out. 1975 was published and the store actually opened in 1977. And then the meantime I did the playbook for Man About Sex. Or actually that was after the store was open. And the playbook for kids about sex. Those were my first three books. And where did the playbook sell? Um...  Yeah, I don't know. You know, I think at that time, I tried to sell through mail order. I remember buying an ad in Ms. Magazine before they freaked out, said that would you carry my ads anymore? This was not a six magazine. But I don't think anybody ever bought it from there. I think I bought a classified ad there. Mail order was like unheard of one by one. I did actually, I'm remembering now, that I think I took it around.  a few bookstores and ask them if they would take it on consignment. That's what we did in those days for few books here and there. I'm not exactly sure when I did that but I drove around and I don't even remember where I promoted it but I sold many of them by mail. And I would go to meetings of sex people at that time, sex educators and stuff and would sell a few there. I don't remember most of it. And I had all the... I eventually... I used to do this out of my...  a table in my dining room where I lived down in the suburbs and on the pencil and Berlin game and eventually I bought a little trailer and it was my office and we parked it in the backyard. Fortunately somebody, the people who lived in my home before I bought it were potters and they had built this concrete slab in the backyard to put their kilns on. It was a perfect place to park my trailer and now X has been rigged up for fall in line and electricity.  easy to mind with trailer and I sit out there and wrap books and go to the post office. I didn't have anybody helping me at that time. And that was the center. That was down there, breath. That was a little bot that boom. And it was, you know, I had a home office for good vibrations too in that sense. It was the same place. So do you want to mention good vibrations and date wise? I feel like. I want to mention it. Let's see.  So down their press, I'm sorry, but let's make it. So good vibrations just so you could kind of put this in context. Down their press you said this is 70. Down their press start, my first book was, it had a pub date of 1975. 75, okay. And it's still open in 1977. Okay. So if you could just explain what happened between 75 and 77, that good vibrations.  I started. I made a remember all this stuff. I have a terrible. My sister should be sitting here. She has an excellent memory, not for my life, but she remembers everything. And I never remember anything. Let's see. The store was initiated because the sex counseling program, which was at UCSF, the Medical Center for University of California, was decided to what's the word I'm looking for to lay off.  off just about everybody who worked for the sex counseling program that didn't have a PhD because they were become they used to be part of they were that that center was part of the Department of Ambulatory and Community Medicine and that relationship wasn't very satisfactory to the university for reasons I don't know much about and so they decided to make it part of the Department of Psychiatry and then they wanted doctors and they cut their staff substantially so.  somebody else who was cut then was actually one of the co-founders of San Francisco sex information and my friend Tony Ayers. I said to her, you know, we were doing pre-roaps for women who were non-argasmic, all the pre-argasmic women and groups in the sex counseling program and we were realizing that one of the things we did, we didn't start with this because we wanted women to learn to be comfortable touching themselves but sometimes we did recommend that these vibrators and the places to buy them were just...  So I said to Tony, one day we were conversing, that both of us were losing our jobs there. She subsequently became a therapist, and she was a nurse, and she subsequently became a therapist, and could have actually stayed working there, if she had had that license at the time. I said, so Tony, why don't you start a vibrator store? She said, nah, I don't want to do that. You do it. So I did.  That was the story I told and that's kind of what happened. It wasn't quite that quick, but it just seemed like a place that needed to be. Some place women could go and buy vibrators. And Lee, in 75, when the workbook was published, what were you doing at that time? What was I doing? Working for New Glide. Working for New, New, New, New. I was working for a bunch of people who were self-employed.  consultants and I would keep their checkbooks, I would type their letters. You know I was their personal assistant, whatever. Some of them I had went to three days a week, some of them were once every two weeks. You know I had a woman who did communication workshops and that's where I saw one of Johnny's flyers for the youth.  her UC workshops. I had a historian, I had a law professor, I had a physician. Later I think I had an archivist. It was all word of mouth. And it was all within walking distance of my home, which was very convenient. And I was doing a tremendous amount of volunteer work at the Haydashbury Free Clinics and the Haydashbury Switch Board. So I didn't.  I mean, I was not on a career path at all. My partner says he took his retirement in his 20s, so now he'll have to work forever. I don't feel like I took my retirement in my 20s. I was working. I just wasn't socking it away for retirement. Mm-hmm. And in your job at volcano press, what were your responsibilities with Ruth? I started doing...  that in about 82 or so and my title was officially the business manager. So I was keeping the checkbook, I was editing manuscripts I guess and in those days you worked with a type setter instead of the person doing the page layout. So there'd be a lot of proofreading and checking the the galleries and I remember one time.  We had sent a cover proof over to the designer and he said, isn't your address 330 Ellis? Not 300? It's like, oh, golly. So, you know, dealing with the printers, just getting the books out and trying to sell them. And it was hard because it was a small press.  The chains at the time were walled in books and the predecessor to Barnes & Noble. There were two book chains that were much smaller. They were impossible to deal with. You'd sell them books. They'd return the books. They'd be in boxes that were much too small for them. They would want their credits. You'd tell them no, the books are not in resellable condition.  They would send you to collection. Oh, that was just horrible. Barnes and Noble at the time was primarily a... Borders, that's what it was called. No, it's pre-borded. Yeah, must have been Dalton's. Borders didn't exist. That was still a bookstore and Ann Armer, Michigan. And Barnes and Noble sold college books. Ingram was a... And Baker and Taylor primarily supplied the libraries. They were not in the...  bookmark it at all. I went to a workshop at ABA, I think in Las Vegas in the early 90s and the panel of distributors and wholesalers. The guy from Ingram got up and he basically said, we're going to take over the world. And by Gally, they pretty much have. And you mentioned before when we were off tape, just how you learned all this, who taught you to do all this.  All these things. Well Ruth gots dying of volcano press which had started out as glide publications and then became new glide publications. It was a part of glied memorial Methodist church or their foundation which has become very well known because of its pastor Cecil Williams. The church or the foundation started glide I think.  in the late 60s or the very early 70s with a social mission, which was why they published the books about battering and conspiracy of silence about incest. And various other 60s or early 70s progressive kinds of topics, prisoners' rights, I can't remember them all. And  So when I started going to work with Ruth, New Glide, or as it shortly became volcano press, was in Glide Church. And that's not the greatest neighborhood, I mean, it was at the greatest neighborhood then in the early 80s, and it still isn't the tender loin of San Francisco. And we would go out to lunch, and we would talk about plans for the future. And Ruth would explain about printing and publishing, just the world.  whole business of it. She was very generous about the way she shared her knowledge, which she had pretty much acquired on the fly, I think. And you have to ask her about getting the independent presses into the American Booksellers Association annual shows. She's a real fighter. She's a real fighter and she spoke for all of the independent presses, especially in the Bay Area, but all over the country and she was just probably the premier leader.  in getting small presses distributed in bookstores and heard about and available by mail loader, you know, all the various things. And they're not for it, like crazy. The whole. And the whole. And the whole. She realized also that the reason publishing, independent publishing, small press publishing had been able to exist was you had a shift from hot type, you know, where you're pouring the lead to cold type where the galley's are all computer general.  I mean, at the time we were getting, you know, still long strips of paper, but it was generated basically by computer, and it was much cheaper. The West Coast publishers started to publish their books with paper covers because it was cheaper. It was just, you could do a book for, well, back then, maybe 50 cents a book, a dollar a book, whereas the cloth cover was three or four dollars a book.  Wichers Weekly, the major review media, didn't acknowledge paperbound books as real books. They weren't reviewed. So you had no way to get the word out. There was no internet. And the paperbound books were always, you know, after they came out three or four years after the hardcover at which point they weren't going to get reviewed again. So the idea to start with a paperbound book, that's what Lee's talking about was new in those days. Right. Wichers went from cloth.  to mass market size, pocket book size, the trade or quality paperback as it was also known as, was a West post, more a West post kind of thing than that. And something would come out in those days as you know it's very first edition was paperback. And of course you know the textbooks were the last things to catch up. It was years before after that before textbooks came out in paper. And who did Ruth consider her peers at that point when she founded the press?  people probably like Phil Wood at 10 speed press who died in January. He had done the anybody's bicycle book. That's a bicycle repair manual and famous for what color is your parachute. His company was. And some of the women's presses I think spinsters.  But I think we were bigger. Volcano press was bigger than them. And it wasn't just women's, I mean, Ruth kind of turned it towards a more woman-oriented focus. With the other... Oh, Ron Turner. She's... Last guest. Yeah, from Last Guest Press. Sebastian Warfuli. And at...  and or press they did drug books. I mean, you know, it was the alternative press. So these are people that Ruth talked shop with. Yeah. Yeah. I'm proud to say that once upon a time, Ruth said, and I never forgot that she said, she didn't say besides me, although she should have said that about herself, she said, there are two geniuses in small publishing these days, Ron Turner and Joni Blank. She used the word genius, I'm like, oh, come on Ruth. But that's what she said.  So tell me about, I'm going to be interviewing Ruth too, but tell me about your relationship with Ruth and her press. The most important relationship that I had with Ruth was that I was her friend. I mean, even though she's quite a bit older than I am, I don't even remember a lot of the stuff about the press except that it was a natural, for example, in period I didn't want to. It's sort of like giving away good vibrations.  guy to sex. I also gave away period because I thought that it could get better distribution, et cetera, with because she was then a much more substantial publisher than I was. And there were some other reasons like I think down there was volcano press in those days doing some other children's books because it was the only book I know it was the first one that was the only one she ever did too, I guess. I'm not the only one she ever did but that was the only one she was doing at the time.  So I just felt a lot of pardon me. You went back to Boston. Is that, but that was why I stopped doing period. Was I was going to Boston? Yeah, well my daughter was two and a half, between which is two and a half and three and a half. My husband and I decided we wanted to live some place different for a year. And we chose to go to Boston because that's where my parents were. They were quite elderly. My daughter was quite young and I thought this is the only chance they're ever really going to get to know each other. And there were some other reasons too, so we picked.  that place and we went for a whole year. And I guess that was right around the time when I had been publishing period for a while. Anyway, I just made sense for her to do it instead of me. So I pretty much gave it to her. I don't think she... Oh, she... I know what she gave me. I still had the foreign rights. So when foreign rights got sold, I got some little bit of income from that. I don't think I... I don't know that I charged her anything for the initial publishing rights. If I did, it wasn't very much. The point...  I don't remember anymore. If you remember otherwise, you're probably correct, late. But I just know I liked her. I enjoyed being with her. We would socialize. I mean, we didn't do a lot. And right when I must have been, I don't even understand this. Because, you know, while I started earlier than I guess I opened the store, but it was only like two and a half, three years after my daughter was born. My daughter was.  point in the same year that the store opened in November. She's still open in March. And I remember that I forgot what I was going to say. You never mind. Well, I was going to ask you, and if it comes back, just interrupt me. But when you started down there press, who were your peers, and who did you seek knowledge from? Ruth.  that all. So I'm interested in that because in one email exchange you jokingly said this project is titled Voices from the Radical Feminist Press and you said well I don't know this qualifies as feminist I don't know if we were considered feminists I don't know if I want to be called a feminist press so this might be a good time to talk about. I was fine about being called a feminist press but I wasn't sure that the feminist press would include us as one of them and I was really interested in sex education.  for everybody. I mean, I was dealing with the women's stuff because it just seemed like, um, I just, you know, that was the sexuality that was coming out of the closet right and left in all ways and I'm not talking about sexual orientation here, I'm just talking about in general. Like, my workshops were called, it's not a secret anymore. But it very quickly became obvious to me that I needed to educate, that we needed to educate.  all of us needed to educate ourselves about sex. Men and women alike. And part of the women coming out of the closet was a way of finding a way to be better understood by men. For those who had male partners, and even those who didn't have male partners, but by their fathers and brothers and stuff about what is happening to our daughters and our younger sisters and all these people, all of a sudden, these women that were married to even, all of a sudden, they were like, hmm.  I got to, you know, my reality's got to make some shifts or this relationship is not going to work out in terms of their own partners. And some did and some didn't. And I mean, I have a lot of that, I think. Well, I don't know. That's sort of an attention I was about to go off on, so I won't. But, like, I was focused on sexuality. The sort of, it was incidental that...  This was right, incidental, not accidental, but in some ways it felt incidental to a lot of people to be pushing the general sex agenda. Like what? I remember this specific event that happened in the store. The store was open and I had the playbook for kids about sex, I mean for women about sex there. And the other books that I had published and maybe a handful of other titles in those days I carried like six books because old wives' tales, the feminist books that was down the street  away from the store. And so I was there was a young man in the store, an Asian young man who was very clearly very shy and he came in and I said to the store was very tiny in those days and I said to him, can I help you? And he said no I just want to look around. I said okay. And then I just thought he was looking around and he was looking at all the stuff. Didn't touch anything on the shelves or pick anything up or anything. And it was clearly scared and these two women.  came into the store a couple I found I figured later a lesbian couple and I said to them in my same voice I said to him I said may I help you please and I would you like some help and they said not with him in here and I said oh okay and he quickly left and I said please come back later I mean I I felt terrible and what I wish I had done then was chewed them out for treating my customer badly but I didn't I was kind of like whoa  I was taking a bath and they picked up the playbook for women about sex and they opened it up and There's a there's a page in there where it says Here is a picture. There's a big circle and there's a place to draw in there It says draw in the in this serval draw picture something that turns you on and then I gave some examples and The three and I drew my own little pictures on terrible artists, but the first one was my hand Mm-hmm His penis  do a little erect penis, a little cart, you know. And the ocean, I drew the waves in the ocean. And they opened it up and they were just offended like crazy that I had done that little picture of a penis and said his penis. I was like, and that, you know, and that was in the days when you spelled women with an L. And at least that was their notion. And that was...  an extreme example, but there was something else going on too, which was, this was in the days before the big wars around Andrea Dworkin and the sexuality doesn't belong in feminism. But real, we can talk about women getting what they want sexually, but actually to talk about what that is, that's a different story. Anatomy and physiology and understanding sexual responses. That's pretty okay, but we start talking.  about relationships and sex and relationships, like, eh, it doesn't belong here, particularly if it's heterosexual sex, but any sex, we just don't talk about it. And particularly if it is heterosexual sex, of course we don't talk about it. We're not interested in that. And worse than that, women who have sex with men are, or even who have fantasies about sex with men are, can't even call themselves feminists, they're with people who felt that way. We're right in the middle of that.  Were you getting this message? I mean, obviously you were, but where else were you getting this message aside from these two customers who came in and kind of? Well, I didn't really get the message from them. That was kind of indicative of what happened. It was mostly I would participate in small press events. And then I would participate in other things which were feminist publishers. And they were all small presses too, but they kind of held themselves apart from this model.  press movement in general in some ways. I mean, they were struggling with the same issues like people, stores that would only take your books on consignment and lots of returns and all this messy stuff that all small publishers dealt with. Really hard to get reviewed and publishers weekly and having to put a pub date on your book that was really six months later than when you actually had books. So you had to fake it, right? That's the only way to get published and publish it.  all those kinds of issues we all struggled with that. But in terms of the content of what we were doing, there were many people in the feminist books or movement. Most of them, on a personal basis, they accepted me and many of them thought I was a lesbian and they were freaked out when they found out that I wasn't in those days identified as heterosexual. And they sort of, well, how could I possibly understand their sexuality?  because I didn't know anything about lesbianism, which is... And anyway, even if I did, we don't talk about that stuff. So that's more, I would guess that was more where I got it. And some of it may have been of my own making. I retrospectively, I look at that, I was holding myself apart from them. Because they were so tight about sex. I mean, I'm definitely exaggerating. On a personal one-to-one basis, they weren't uptight about sex. But I think they felt a little anxious about it.  how sort of out there I was. And I think the fact that I was heterosexual was a big issue for a number of people. Not just in the publishing movie, but like there was a woman who ran a restaurant in the neighborhood of the store and she did a map of women's businesses up and down on the OSEA street and the second year I got left out and I found out it was because I was heterosexual and she said it was because I wasn't on Valencia Street, I actually owned this street.  I would walk away and it turned out there were other businesses that were a block away that were on there like anyway there were a couple that were so that was an excuse and It was just kind of Wasn't part of that world It's interesting to hear you say that Lesbians and certain feminists were uptight in terms of talking about sex because now in In the nostalgic terms there's a lot of boasting about how  erotic the whole movement lies. Well part of that yeah I understand it different people are different and some people have had that reaction but the sort of the public face of that particular branch of the small publishing movement was pretty. If not sex negative it was more kind of like well that's not what we're into. Sort of like the response of Miss Magazine. You know like we're not a sex magazine.  So they never would accept an ad for good vibrations. Here in our ad said, friendly feminist and fun. That was the name of the store. I mean, that's sort of under the... We saw the stuff. And even when I tried to just get the books part, we had a separate catalog for a while called the Sexuality Library. It didn't have any toys in it. Still couldn't get an ad in Ms. The last gasp of the ads in Ms. This isn't really about the publishing, but it's kind of indicative of what happened.  I fought with Ms. for years to take and a half for good vibrations. And there were even in the issue where they published a big long interview with Betty Dodson, they wouldn't carry any books about masturbator. They wouldn't put her book in their catalog. I don't know whether she tried to sell her book in those days liberating masturbation when they had her book. But somebody said, well, the editorial department and the marketing people are two different worlds. And they didn't want to have sex stuff in the ads. And they didn't want to have sex stuff in the ads.  So, finally, after several attempts and several years and confronting Gloria Steinem at one of the booksellers meetings, I didn't really conflunter, but I just confronted, I just mentioned this problem to her and she said, oh yeah, I know all of this. I don't even remember what she said, it doesn't matter. And they finally said, well, I finally said, why don't you write the ad? And that's acceptable to you. And let me just know, no, you write the ad.  but you can't use the word vibrator in your ad. And you can't use the name of the business, because it's good vibrations. You can't use the name of the business. It's about vibrators. So I said, I'm supposed to advertise my store, because it has a very popular name. The store was already well-known, even by people who didn't live in the Bay Area. And there was the Beach Boys song, Good Vibrations, and everybody got it. That it was all about, you know. And Orange Soda used to use that too. But there, thank you.  remember that company that made orange soda, used that good vibrations too for their ad. And I can't use the ad. That was the point where I basically said, take your ad and shut it. Mm-hmm. And Leigh, did I see scribbling something when we were talking about? Oh, one, the women's publishers and bookstores started to get together at the book shows annually. Whoa.  And I think in the first year or two, I hadn't heard about it. And it's kind of like, oh, well, where are women's press? So then I started to go. And there was a meeting the day before where everyone talked about, as Joni says, the common problems of distribution and printers and whatnot. And at one of the meetings,  we had fairly recently brought out Famelia and we had this incredible publicity hit, Penthouse magazine, devoted a whole page to it. They printed it on this wonderful sort of tan, almost cardstock. And so it really set it off from the rest of the magazine. But a whole page, a picture of the cover and a couple of the illustrations which were...  photographs of the the vulva and oh my gosh they loved it they just thought it was great the phones rang off the hook the phones rang off the hook in mail order they rang off the hook at the front desk we ran through that first printing of 5,000 books in no time at all we had to go back to breast right away and it was wonderful because when you get a book like that that allows you to print other books it gives you the the funds to print up  things that aren't maybe going to do as well. So I get to ABA or maybe it was book expo, America by that time and someone sitting next to me said, well how does it feel to have something like Penthouse talking about your book? I said, well it's paying for a lot of other books. But there was that you know that kind of...  The sex books aren't quite right or getting this publicity from a men's magazine like that isn't quite kosher. And do you think that moral tide that that changed? I have a no idea. Well, everyone had a niche. But some publishers, I think, did... I mean, I remember one publisher talking about... But we would never publish a...  And then two or three years later, oh, they're doing a lot of romance books with a lot of sex in them. Well, I want to ask you about printing those books because beginning with the workbook, I have heard a lot of stories that people took there, took their either issues of a newspaper or a book to the printer they had been using. And if it showed... The illustrations from the beginning, for years and years, the biggest problems we had were...  Like way back when, for that year we were in Boston, we were working on men loving themselves. And I had published, I am my lover before that, a previous edition of I Am My Lover. And these books were photographic books of people masturbating women's book and the men's book. And they were really early in my publishing career as I look back on it. When I think about it, at least the first editions of the more, I think I am my lover was actually from Boston.  was still in the 70s before. Can't wait. Anyway, it wasn't, it was a long time ago. 78, I think it was or something like that. Anyway, the classic thing, actually, we probably had more experience of this than me. But my memories this is we would go to the various publishers. There were several printers, maybe a dozen of them or fewer, seven or eight, who did a lot of small press books, and they were comfortable with short runs. And people were doing as few as 1,000 books, and sometimes two or 3,000 or 5,000. For sure, there were some,  even fewer. And these few publishers, these few printers would do them routinely. They were all in the Midwest, almost all in the Midwest. And they would happen as we would call up and get a quote on a book. To get a quote on a book and they would want it. We would tell them, right off hand, it has photographs of men masturbating or women masturbating in this case. And typically, if it was the estimator that we were talking to, he'd say,  It's fine with me, but I don't know how the boss is going to feel about this. And then when the boss got asked, he would say, it's fine with me, but my employees would quit if they had to work on this. So I can't take it. Sometimes it went back and forth between the estimator and the president of the company, both of whom said, we can't do it for different reasons. After saying, sure. Sometimes it went to great lengths, like we sent them the hall. They said it was okay.  was okay, okay. We sent them the whole galley for the whole, you know, showing all of the pictures that were going to be in the book. And after saying, sure, then they'd say, no, I think that only happened once where it went pretty far. But usually it was really hard to find them. Now, when we found a few people, and then they, then, oh, with anal pleasure and health, oh my god, that time that was supposed to be hard cover for the first edition, we were going to do some paper back in some hard cover. And the printer did it fine, and then it went to the...  a binary, even if it had just been softcovered, would have had to go to a separate binary. And this company was in the Detroit area Ann Arbor. I don't remember. The Grims that company that we printed with anyway, they sent the books to Grand Rapids to the largest binary of Bibles in the world. And every single box said, ain't no pleasure in half. And they sat and they heard these a lot of.  30 boxes and they sat in that warehouse in the binary for weeks and weeks and weeks before the binary called us up I mean called up the printer and said we can't find it. So what happened? We actually found another binder and then we had to pay shipping I think to the new binder I can even remember when it was before my time. Oh it was before your time I don't remember exactly what happened. Hey meh had to pay  man had to pay shipping to get it to the new binder and it wasn't and wasn't easy to find them. So this happened to you? They didn't find them. I know that. They were going to send us, I know what they were going to do. Maybe this is what eventually happened. No, this is not what eventually happened, but they were going to send what they call folds and gathers, which means the book is already for binding. It just needs to be bound and then trimmed. They were going to send those to the Bay Area. And I think that is what they ended up sending. Because that's what they had sent. They were going to send that to them.  to, and I don't remember whether the same batch went, I don't remember. Did you end up finding a trusted printer who eventually established relations with a company? Well, they, that company continued to do a lot of our books except for the ones with photographs. And the answer is not really. We ended up finding a guy locally whose wife's cousin, brother-in-law, has a press in Hong Kong.  So we basically were sending the books that had photographs overseas, which led to its own nervousness because then the books are going to be let through customs when they come back. So the first time we did that with Famalia were very much on Tentor Hooks and all and the books came in and they had this green tape on them where they had been resealed like customs that opened a couple or something.  And when I looked at them closely, written on this tape, were things like this. This is a cool boy. I like. And I saved those things. I don't know what happened. That's fantastic. Yeah, and there were a few missing probably. Yeah, there might have been. It doesn't. Nothing. But actually, the first printing of female, the printer did something that I think maybe those notes came in on this.  They sent a couple of boxes ahead of time, which kind of went, they came through already. And the purpose of having them do that was then if then the customs tried to stop the bigger shipment, many say, but you've already passed some in. I say, so who was helping you figure out and strategize that? I mean, that, for example, we were just phone calls. Yeah. Yeah. Now, were you aligned at all? I mean, it sounds like you came partly from a woman.  health interest and what you're doing is certainly linked. You were coming from counseling and yeah. You know I interviewed Francie Hornestein last night. Do you know? I don't. So she also works in women's health. Were you aligned at all informally or informally with maybe not the feminist publishers, but the women's clinics or? He was. I wasn't as much. Well I saw them as a market, but they didn't have any money. I mean...  We did mailings to Planned Parenthood because they actually had a mailing list. And actually some of the Planned Parenthoods, it's they'd buy a copy here or there or something, but nothing significant. This is a very, you know, they'd buy one copy for their library. It wasn't like they would buy, you know, while we're doing a sexuality class with a bi-hold bunch of these workbooks for people to use in our class, I had some of that people, I was teaching a human sexuality course at a community college then. Yeah.  And during that time, I remember sending out promotional pieces about our books, about several of our books, to people who taught human sexuality classes in various colleges and universities. I actually wanted to do a local thing with people who taught those courses because they were very scattered and they were often the only person on their campus who taught a class like that and they would teach you for a couple of years and then they'd get harassed all the time, so if they have somebody else taught it, I just thought it would be really good to do some workshops for them.  teach those classes to help each other out and support one another. And those workshops, well, that's not quite true. I did a couple of them at the meetings of this society for the scientific study of sexuality because we were teaching college and community college and university courses. But from time to time, I would promote my books to one or another of those individuals and never any, there wasn't any organization of them. Although I used to go to the A sect and quite as many as I guess then.  Asex is the American Association of Sex Educators and Counselors, it was called then and then it changed the Counselors and Therapists asex. And then they are an organization which, among other things, gives people the word I'm looking for, certificates of continuing it. But you could become a certified sex educator or a certified sex therapist through them. Still can. And the other organization was the Society for the Scientific Study of It was called this.  scientific study of sex in those days, for many years it's been sexuality. So the society for the scientific study of sexuality, that I was much more active on. I was actually on the board of it for a while and I ran out of the national, I mean the regional conferences and I used to attend every year. I mean now I just go as a camper and I don't, at one time I gave, I actually gave a paper at one of the asex to meetings but other, mostly I just went as a, for my own interest, I was vitally interested in lots of asses.  aspects of the sex field. Didn't have anything to do with the books that I was publishing. Did anyone start publishing during this time books about sex that you recall or were interested in or... Cleas? Cleas? Yeah, I'm thinking of before Cleas. Well, Cleas probably was doing some. There were individual people doing individual books like Pat Caliphia published her book on lesbian SM and her general book on lesbian sexuality. Didn't she publish her book on the end?  Lulan published her book and the publishers who published them were basically feminist publishers who were willing to publish those few books. How far do you remember the dates that I remember that kind of stuff? I just remember individual titles and even those I don't remember many of them. You know we sold in this store we sold our bodies ourselves and we sold these few books that were published by individual authors, some of whom self-published.  in some of whom had small publishers. And for someone trying to get a sense of down their press, how would you distinguish it from the books that began to come out of Clius? Well, it's not just Clius. Like I said, it's the same distinction that we're publishing books about sex, not books specifically about the stuff of women's sexuality  just women's sexuality coming out of class that we're interested in. So you were the only person? We were. We were up until our very end. We were the only people who just published sex books. I think what I was describing as pansexual. I mean other people were doing lesbian books or gay books. There's big gay men's publishing scene. And then there were people like Greenery who were doing the more-  towards the SNM. Ben, but we were the ones who were more trying to be universal about it. Basic sex, whether you're a real or a female or a basic straight-in girl. The importance of being able to understand sexual response and how it works. And then people were not interested in that. I mean, we were more into that. And we also, nobody was doing books on masturbation. And there were only people. I mean, people.  Betty Dodson published her monograph, Librating Masterbation. And that was the only document. And that was, you know, that was even, that was before I put out, started down their press even. But that book was just, you know, it was a lone wolf at that time. But then didn't she do another book that Harmony or Crown, you know, one of the big, well, yes, one of the publishers did. It was basically, Librating Masterbation, it was called Sex for One. I'm done. Yeah. She jazzed it up and turned it into that book. She sold tons of...  thousands of her monographs and then her little book, a little saddest-ditch book with her drawings in it. I think one of the significant things that happened was when we licensed Herodica to a New York publisher. We were approached by an agent and he said, oh, I can sell this to New York. And he did. Penguin picked it up. And that the year it-  came out, there was a big article in the New York Times magazine, I think. And here we are at ABA and go to somebody and say, oh, you should go to the New York Times booth and, oh, look, there's a mention of Herodica too. And several other Herodica books. It was like, I think that was around 92. So there was a whole bunch of publishers deciding, okay.  let's do erotica. And most of them are not publishers of sex books. None of them were. Right. For the only one. So there's a there's an interesting story about how I decided to publish erotic. Anything erotic. I was like I'm published sexual self-help books. Don't talk to me about erotica. I don't even I don't read it. I like it. I'm not interested in it. Let somebody else who's into the literary end of this do that. You know. And that was my attitude. But there was another problem. I I  convinced that if we were going to publish erotic short stories which an erotic novels were not they were out of the hard to do they were hard to do and out of the question and novels period I wasn't interested and we never did publish novel we did eventually what Carol's slither daddy in the fan oh that's true that was after my time I was a reprieved company by then yeah but we weren't the first publisher of that right no I didn't think so anyway so I actually went to talk to  Pat, the woman who was the book review editor for the halt. Patricia Holt. I went to talk to her because I had gotten to know her a little bit. I'll say through the booksellers, ABA meeting her there or some... She was a reviewer for the chronicle. She was a reviewer for the chronicle. But I actually had a little more of a connection so I could call her and say, I'm Johnny Blank and she said, oh, sure. And I went on and talked her and I said, I'm thinking it might be a really good idea to publish a collection of...  and I'm having a real problem. And that is, if I make a book that's all lesbian, then heterosexual people probably will like it, especially men. But if I make a book that's all heterosexual orarodica, then lesbians won't buy it. And the thought of doing a book that was about women's, written by women, about whatever kind of sexuality, didn't even occur to me. And I couldn't figure out what to do with it. I couldn't figure out what to do.  about that and or maybe put out two books at the same time or something like that. And Pat said, don't worry, just put them all together. And so and she said, do it. She was the one who encouraged me to do it. I thought, well, if the book reviewer for the San Francisco Chronicle says this is a book that's going to be in demand. And how did it go? And we did. Well, until her, when Herodica 2 came out and had its big publisher, then I think the Herodica 1 sales went, we didn't call it Herodica when we just called it Herodica.  And I think the sales from every good bump. A new one would come up, the old ones would get bumps. But the early days, it was kind of like all of our other books. You know, we were a tiny little publisher, hard to get distribution. We were distributed by the small press distributors and same old thing. I don't remember that, you know, Lena was much better than I do because I don't, I don't. I have terrible memory for that sort of thing. But. So SPD was your... Oh, no. We never worked with that.  What? Book people and inland. Inland. Do you know about those two book distributors? Well, book people I've heard of. Book people? Well, it's a very sad story. They were a very creative company. They were a worker co-op for one thing. Structure was a worker co-op, which eventually good vibrations became one too. But that was very ahead of the time. They actually made big news. They started in the 60s or something. Yeah.  amazing and England bankrupt in the mid 2000s. Yeah. But England was actually, was an East Coast distributor that was started by a person who worked at book people. So it was kind of like a a niece or nephew or child of book people in that sense. I mean all the other people who worked there were not, but they were basically doing, they were doing a very similar thing to what book people was doing. They had certain contacts and things so that there were  and people published, you know, small publishers had their books both places. It was cheaper for a bookstore on the east coast to get their books from inland and not pay as much shipping. But they weren't formally associated with each other at all. Not at all. And even after book people died, Inland was still going pretty strong. No. No, no, I'm excuse me. I take that back. Did Inland survive? Oh, I'm wrong about that. Inland went bankrupt.  And the principles created a company called LPC. Oh, that's why I forgot about that. Yes. I forgot about that. And then LPC went bankrupt. And then book people went bankrupt. I mean, I don't know what's going to happen with small presses, with borders going down. A friend of mine told, he brought out a fairly big book last fall and he said he's lost $4,000. A net loss of $4,000. That's a lot of money for a company.  So one of the down there press books, not one of mine, is probably going to have a revival even though most of them went to the shredder. And that's Martha's book, the big book of masturbation. And the reason that's going to have a revival is the new movie called Sticky the Movie, which is a movie about masturbation. I just talked to the producer of it just yesterday because they put out a notice to all the people they know asking for people to contribute.  to further last $25,000 that they need to finish it. They actually need more money than that. But he's planning the guy who's doing it. I can't remember the name of his company. His name is Nicholas Tanah. I said, when do you think sticky is gonna be done? He said, if all goes well, we get the money we need. It's gonna be ready for 2012. 2012? Sundance. No, maybe next year, maybe the following year. Okay, yeah, that sounds soon.  Yeah. And so the book will be reissued and traveling on. I don't know what's going to happen. Martha's interviewed in the movie and I said, I forgot. But I forgot. I said, by the way, am I in that movie because I'm not in Orgas and Inc. which is another movie that's coming out very soon. And I wasn't in the book about the movie about vibrators. I wasn't interviewed in that one. How is that possible? Pizza hell out of me. I really would know one would have known about Rachel, no side of I, Tripoli.  if I hadn't put it into good vibrations, or even if I had it. Right. Remember, you didn't want to do that. I didn't remember that, but I'm so glad you did. Now I thought I did that. So explain it. I mean, I was the one who met Rachel, though, first, and I knew about her work, which is how it went. So OK, so Rachel Maynes wrote a wonderful book called The Technology of Orientalism. And it's all about the history of vibrator use for sexual purposes. The play, the vibrator play, what's it's called in her room.  a room in her room or something like that, in the room or something like that. It's a play about vibrators and it's based on Rachel Mayn's book. Now Rachel Mayn's was still, she wrote, she was an historian who taught in a technical institution. She taught about the history of electrical, the history of technology, of technological things. And it's kind of fluky. There's a whole cool story about how she got interested in vibrators. Her basic intention is  is that around the turn century, a little before that, doctors and midwives were treating hysteria in women, which was, you know, by manipulating their genitals manually and creating a paroxysm, which, as I said in my review of this book, which I wrote, I'm only book review, I ever wrote for the Society for Scientific Journal of Sex Research, I said, I have to assume that these men all had women.  who all had wives who were not orgasmic. Otherwise they would have recognized what was going on with their patients as an orgasm. But it's mysterious to me. But anyway, and she wrote on this for the... She wrote a paper about this for the international, as she even electrical engineers, and they had a newsletter. The society of... I don't remember what it's called. I eat something sometimes.  She wrote that and she, anyway, she wrote, she published an article and there people thought it was a joke because it was about, it was called the vibrator as a labor saving device. That's how they were using it. It took a long time to do this manually. It's like, is the vibrator real? She had orgasm in it. So who thought that was a joke? All the people who received the antics, I thought it was like an April Fool's edition of their magazine, it was just too ridiculous. She actually, I think that she lost her job at the technical institution where she was.  teaching. I don't know if she lives in Buffalo, New York. I think there's a famous tech institute there. Or maybe she wasn't, I don't remember the details of that, but she essentially got completely rejected by, and then Johns Hopkins pressed published her little book and they had no idea. And it was like, it hit, it has a new, you know, the little book was like this big, it had a review, this big, and the New York Times, the book review section. And it just went crazy. It was a very interesting book. You can read it in like an hour. It's not a great book.  read it. So anyway Rachel the movie that was made don't ask me the title I have it over there on my bookshelf they made these two women filmmakers made a movie which was she was the main person interviewed and then and you were not talking ahead I was not talking ahead and I met them they met me fairly early on in their production and I was like why aren't you including me in this movie because they have all of you some of the people they had some woman who was a well-known comedian.  or something. She had nothing to do with the sex business. She made some comments about vibrators and then all the other usual suspects were in there, but I may include your joys and elders. So I'm not and I'm not an orgasmic either, although I know a bunch of people who are, but you're in sticky the movie. I'm in sticky the movie and I had to ask Nicholas. I said, am I in that movie? So of course you are. I said, oh god, I don't remember anything about it. And he reminded me about what he what I said and I saw him.  I'm having really bad memory problems right now. Is he a West Coast person? No. Oh wait a minute. Maybe he's an ill. I can't remember. No, I can't. I was going to say the East Coast media just dismissing once again the West Coast. No, no, because a lot of the people who made the other movie were not East Coast. They were from West Coast. So as down there, Press grew. I mean, you told me the story about the initial workbook that you wanted to publish. How did how did your vision?  for the press change? Well, I have to say it grew like Topsy. I am so not into growth. I can't tell you. I mean, I didn't occur to me. Well, let's have a plan. Let's publish a book about this and a book about this and this order. Let's look for an author. He's going to do this. Nah. We just, you know, I would be good idea to have a companion, you know, not a companion book, but a playbook for men, too. I don't want for kids. And then, oh, I know a lot about vibrators, so I wrote good.  you know, good vibrations, the God dividers. The first one. Mm-hmm. And that one and the playbook, by the way. I think those are my first, I think I wrote good vibrations before I did the men's playbook. I was fun. I want to man to write the men's playbook. It didn't make sense for it to be me, but it was me. I was living in the suburbs down South of San Francisco at that time, the Berlin game. And at my local recreation center, I took a course in calligraphy. So I hand wrote those books the first two, good vibrations. It's a-  me about, I don't know, you know, a few days to write it and then another week or two to hand the letter it. And I took one of those books to my calligraphy teacher who were about like practicing my calligraphy and she was like, oh, I wish the listeners could see my face. Oh, I don't remember what she said. Maybe she didn't have a negative reaction. I just made it up because it's a good story.  I remember her being kind of like, I wonder what this is. She said my calligraphy was quite good. It was like a six class and class in my local rec center. That's it? I took it. Oh yeah, and then a hand letter. I'm not a good calligrapher. It didn't have to be. Yes. I took a calligraphy course because I hated my handwriting. I wanted my general handwriting to be better. And you said your anti-growth but despite that.  Well, the people who sort of took over running good vibrations when I was backing off from my role, some of them believe and I think they're right, the vibrations never would have gotten very big if I had been in charge. I didn't care, I just, I did it because it was the right thing to do and it just seemed like the right thing to do. And I tried, you know, same thing with turning into a worker co-op, that was probably not the most maximum thing to maximize profits. I didn't feel right to run it as a business that I was the boss.  I wasn't acting like the boss anyway. People say, well, what differences were there after you became a worker co-op? Like, I don't know. I mean, we always had democratic management. I'll never forget when Mary Ann Zanker, remember her. She was working for the store, and we didn't really have a bookkeeping system then. And our no inventory system at all. And she said, I said, she said, you know, we really ought to have some kind of a minimal inventory system. And that was just in the days when computers were just starting. Mm hm.  And I said, go find one and I'll buy it. Because I said, I didn't get it. She did. I actually think I found one that was cheaper and it was terrible. Because I'm the big bargain for two. And you know, I have to say, I had a great luxury that most people do not have when they're starting their own businesses. And this is definitely true for this store, and the publishing company too, which was that client.  bought a house, it'll be hard for people to understand this, who know a lot about housing prices in the Bay Area before the crash. But I bought a house on the San Francisco Peninsula. About, I had been here about five or six weeks when I bought a house. And I bought a house that was a bargain at $39,500 because almost of the houses around there on that block cost $45,000 to $50,000. And my house only cost...  $39,500. It was a three bedroom house. When I got married in 1977, my husband came to live there. He had grown up in that area. And we had housemates most of the time. We were growing up because we didn't want our kid. Partly, we had housemates with children, with one or two children, single moms, because we want to have our daughter who was a single. Singleton gets to play with. We thought it was fun to have housemates. My mortgage was $225 a month.  and even county taxes insurance total $300 a month across the live there. So in year, and we charged our roommates to 50. So for most of that time, Mark and I each contributed $25 towards housing. And I was teaching a workshop at the Women's Center that we started in, not I didn't start, but I was involved with them. We lived in San Mateo County, which is a very conservative county. They call it the Orange County of Northern California, South of San Francisco. And...  I taught a class at the women's center called, how to live very well, I'm very little. And I was about how to live really, really well with $400 a month. And I was doing it and I taught this class about how to do it, very popular. Where does here you talked to me before? I got here, we emailed a little bit about parking and you said you're very frugal, where does that come from? My parents, my mother in particular. I think both of my parents that my mother was a little more aware of because she did most of her shopping.  But in terms of grocery shopping stuff, both of my parents always went to the day old food first cut. Vegetables in the meat was marked down because it was its last day on the shelf. I don't know, it's just like my parents were like that. There's a very famous Boston institution called Philean's basement. It doesn't exist anymore. And we used to joke with my mother. She used to camp out there on the night before it sales. Yeah, I know Philean's basement is no more.  I went to a filing store a long time ago, but it lasted for a long time after I elected. But when I started to have to shop for clothes for myself, I was shocked at how much they cost because I was used to buying everything in filing space. So I switched my allegiance to shopping at Goodwill and Salvation Army and Griff Stores and now when I moved to California to Racheale, it's very, I buy a new piece of clothing about once every five years. And I'll go on to the round.  or exceptions but even my shoes I get used my sister used to say oh how can you wear somebody else's shoes yeah well Lee maybe you can because you were involved in some of the business aspects of down their press how would you describe the business side of that well we were very fortunate because good vibrations was doing so well and thriving and growing  I think, first, well, Mary Ann Sanker and Kathy Winks and Ann Seaman were taking hold of good vibrations. Joni was happy for them. Joni was very involved in a lot of other things. She had church, she had her daughter. She said shortly after I started in 87 or 8 that she was going to take us to the  sabbatical and be the Western regional director of Quas, the Society for the Scientific Study of Sohne. And so she kind of was leaving everyone on their own and in Kathy, the catalog had already been underway, but they kind of took it to a new level. Joni got this new page layout program called Ventura, which was perfect. It was it was like Ventura.  was more for PCs and books where PageMaker was more for newsletters and Apple computers, short documents. So we were very fortunate that she chose the right software for us. But oh my gosh, the world was so glad you're here. I don't remember any of this. Well, we struggled. We struggled to learn that program because I mean now you can do more with Word than you could with that. But it was fair.  complicated and you know the computers didn't have the capacity at all but I was putting herodica you know doing the type setting and and was creating the sexuality catalog the book catalog which was just starting and and I think she also oh Mary-in was doing the good vibrations catalog I guess so we just they just kind of took hold of  the company and grew it. The computer was just, the internet still wasn't there, but the ads, the places they chose to put ads, everything was happening. There was a confluence of the stars or something, but the company just took off and we just kept growing and growing. We had to move a few blocks away to the store on Valencia Street.  and it just went and down their press was in an extraordinarily fortunate position because we had this financial backer. They bought a lot of our books. Good vibrations did. Good vibrations. It's so funny. They always kept that they bought a lot of our books. It was like, it was a... It's all R. It was like, it was a... Well, it just didn't make... Well, there was a lot of sense. It was just a department of the store. It was the store. It was so different. You know, being a...  publishing company and stores. And we've put different worlds. We're much smaller. So how many people were working on down their press when you were working on it? We, by yourself. 0.5, 0.75. And you mean in addition to you? No. Or you were doing other stuff. That was. Yeah, that was when you were doing all the other stuff. Yeah. And then a few times I would have like a part-time assistant. And I technically was in the beginning. And it was all available. Back to no word that means life's around.  And I would, you know, we, Lee and I did a lot of advice and consent things together. I mean, we, she did, she, a lot of things she did. I didn't care. I didn't pay attention to what she did. And then there were things that she consulted me about or I, or I proposed to her. And, yeah, we were, and this, it's, it's socially this was kind of hard because the rest of the company was looking like, it wasn't that bad. Joan is making faces and shrugging. But no, no. That's true. We're not on television.  I think it was a very collegial, I mean one year we made what felt like a ton of money and what I announced to that our annual meeting and clapped and applauded, you know, I mean I think every busted, yeah, and I think everybody, I think people really liked having this educational aspect, you know, it wasn't just selling the products. And that like the products. They loved the books, you know, they were selling a lot relatively speaking, they were a best customer.  Who did your book design on the covers? Well, you used various designers. At some point in the 90s, I think Anne said, you're just spending so much time doing the page layout. Why didn't you find somebody else to do the page layout? I was like, oh my gosh, pretty somewhat all that money. But it did take everything else. It didn't take a lot of off.  And what I would like to ask each of you, what you're proudest of that came out of down their press? I actually, I can't put a finger on something. I mean, I think it's a little bit, I think just that we were out there doing it, I think we made it possible for all kinds of other publishers to do stuff. And it's the same thing with the store. A woman in Nevada named Lynn Kamala.  did her doctoral dissertation on sex positive feminist, sex positive sex boy stories, not the word feminist although they are. And she's a women's studies. And she did her dissertation and she's still working on a book that's based on her dissertation and she came to the Bay Area not too long ago and actually now a couple years ago I should say and she did reading at the Center for Sex and Culture of a section of her book and I came in late and she had already decided not.  read the part on good vibrations, the chapter in good vibrations because everybody there was really familiar with it. So she read the section on E-Style and which preceded good vibrations. But you know I was there and so after the thing I said she had interviewed me a long time ago and she said I'll send you the chapter in good vibrations so you can look at it. And she didn't send it, she didn't send it and finally I contacted her maybe a year later and I said Lynn, whatever happened, you know her sent this.  And she said, well, I can't because I really, good vibrations is through the entire book. Because after the first chapter, she said, I started saying, this story is also one of the ones that was started by the good vibrations model. This story isn't based on the good vibrations model. So she basically made good vibrations, the model for sex positive sex toy story. I didn't make that language up. But we were the first. I mean, Eve's garden did exist before good vibrations, but it wasn't.  a store, I mean the whole showroom called it a store, but used to be on the 14th floor of an office building and she had mail, she was a mail order company, she still does I think, although I tried to find out something about the current status of East Garden recently and I couldn't I couldn't find out exactly what was going on. But this whole concept of having a store where you sold this kind of thing including those kinds of books. So it was more the store than it was the books. So I'm but...  You know, I am really, I guess my, I'm so, I'm proud of the whole thing that kind of happened in spite of me. I don't feel like it happened because of me. People tell me that it did, I'd say, oh, it, it, because of you. This all happened. And people are happier. I mean, I'm glad to hear it that, that the store has made such an impact on people. And the books too, a lot of people. I had a woman contact me six or eight months ago who is in love with the kids first book about sex and the playbook for kids.  And she loves it so much. She said, I'm going to do what I can. I just, I talked, I communicated with her about it. I said, I'm not able to find a paper, but anybody that wants to publish the print book. And I had tried, not terribly hard, because I'm tired of being a publisher. Well, why don't you just publish it? You're something no way. I'm going to become a publisher again. I don't care. You couldn't have paid me for whatever. I just don't want to do it, even though I could, if I could find a way to finance hiring people to do it. I'm like, yeah, I don't want to do it.  And so I decided to put it up on the internet and make it available for free download. And she made all PDFs for me, which was really cool. And she did it as she had to work them over again. It was complicated. The pages didn't come out all the same size. And she just put a ton of work into it. And she wouldn't accept any money. I mean, eventually when they get public, I'm actually on a sender. I'm on a sender like several hundred. So I mean, now it's for free download.  I'm gonna give her the right to download anytime she wants and sell it to anybody she wants to. You know, just among her friendship group. I'm gonna treat them to it. But they can free download it too, but she wants to print out some or whatever. I don't care. She just said it is a labor of love and I'm doing it now as a labor of love to get it out there. But it's really important that there's still, there is no other book out for little kids. For really little kids. I did the playbook first because I had the model. And then I tried, I want to try to sell that to some library.  and they wouldn't have it because it's what they call consumable format, right? You don't, that libraries don't want books you can write in or you're encouraged to write in. So I basically did the same, but have you seen those books by the way? Yeah, I saw. So I did, basically, did the same text in a non-worked, but formatted. Turned out that it was that way it was available to much younger children because the kids who were ready to read it weren't old enough to read the playbook themselves or write them in. So for a while, a lot of people bought both of them and they would read it to their little kids.  and write about when the kids started to feel self-conscious, then they were old enough to hear. Take the playbook, take it in your room, and you don't have to show it to anybody. So I just thought that was brilliant to do it that way. But there are still to this day there are no other books for young kids that aren't about babies. The thing, reproduction. I was thinking of it when you were talking about the printers for I am my lover and men loving themselves. Along the way.  There was a very important court case around the book, Show Me, where it was no longer... You could face serious jail time if you had a book that showed little kids who were nude with a genitalia, show touching. So a lot of... I think at that point there was a lot of pullback from printers as to what they would do. And that was the mid-80s...  I want to say around the mid 80s, we went to that need to. We went to ABA once and found out there was a remainder's publisher, a remainder's book seller that was selling hundreds and hundreds of copies of Xiaomi. And I told Anta go back and buy them all. And she went back. And then I talked to somebody who knew about this and they said, you could go to jail for owning one copy of that book. Why are you buying so many? In the mid 80s. I bet all.  I think so after the Mish commission maybe. Yeah, it was scary. And oh, oh and? I glad to be the late 80s then. Well, whenever it was, eventually I did buy a thousand copies. St. Morton's press. It was published by St. Morton's press. You bought a thousand copies? Yeah, and then I had this great idea. Never would have happened. I realized as soon as I thought of it, I think we should just give these copies to like 100 people and have them walk around. I'm on a worship.  They're going to arrest us all and put us in jail. No, but they probably would have raised me in jail. You were doing a simultaneous. Well, I don't remember the law, but in either California law or federal law one was you couldn't have pictures, children engaged in sexual activity, whatever that means. Or children posed nude so as to arouse the viewer. One of them is federal law and the other one is state law. Still.  And you know, there's a very sweet picture and show me of two kids, one boy and one girl sitting sort of with their knees up facing the camera and the naked. And the girl is looking into the boy's crotch and she might ever hand like on his thigh and she's not touching his penis. But children engage in sexual activity. Or children pose so as to a rouse of you or that's a crap shoot. You know, clothed or naked or something. You got in trouble for that. Taking clothed children. Mm-hmm.  seductive what the what does that mean look post so to arouse the viewer and it was a book that was very well regarded well oh yeah I mean just people are in such a tremendous appellate the book which book show me you can still buy you can buy it now and people who buy it a lot of people who buy it now are pedophiles I mean on Amazon use books I haven't actually looked lately how do you know that a lot of people who buy their pedophiles oh first of all I need to explain what a pedophile  Petophile is different than a child molester. A petophile is someone who's turned on by those images. Then substantially, he just vastes majority of people who masturbate to those images never touch a child. I want to straighten that out because people use the terms interchangeably. A petophile is someone who molests children, or at least fondles them, you know, physically. Not true. We wouldn't call, if we call everybody who is turned on by fantasies of rape.  a rapist instead of a raptophile, which is the technical term. We've been in big trouble. And that's true for women who enjoy fantasies of being raped, as well as men who enjoy fantasies of raping people. 99.99% of whom never do it. Think about doing it. Anyway, sorry, it was. I've heard that from people.  People who are turned on by images of children, men, it's not easy to get them anymore. So those books are very much in demand. I've been told that. I've never seen any. There's no date on it. What kind of date are you in? anecdotal. Yeah. But I mean, the fact that books are bought by adult men, presumably many of them single or what I don't know. They're not all nice suburban fathers that are buying it to read to their children or show to their children.  I don't know if it's also going to be hard for you to choose one thing that you're proud of, but I wonder if there is one either publication or challenge that came up, that you're proud of stuff during your time at Down Their Press. I think it's more, as Joni says, just being in a position to be able to get this information out to people, you know, so that they can approach sexuality in their bodies in a little bit more.  Accepting, um-hmm way, you know, be more comfortable. Mm-hmm. Right. And, and, you know, and frankly, I'm really proud of us being the only ones who are doing it. Yeah. I mean, it's not every other, like the Herodica series, that was like the beginning of a huge erotic short story thing, not just women. You know, Susie went on to do the Best American Erotic and now there's no whole new batch of stuff is coming up. The Best American, the Best Erotic Short Stories or something.  that Suzy's doing, she's involved in a whole new series with this woman who interviewed her about them more. Well, and look at the romance novels. I mean, they've gone away from, you know, just, oh, and then they fell into bed. And now there's a whole sub-shion, or if you will, that are actually having a whole bunch of sex in them. So one of the early books that came out was The Women's, The Lady's Home, Marottica, which was originally called Something Different and then they changed it to...  the ladies on Maraudica to sort of have it be a joke on the ladies on Journal. What we used to say about that book, and I know one of the women who wrote in that book, they were the Kensington Ladies Society, which is Kenning's, you know, nearer to the road here. Probably I know some of the others, but why am I known in particular.  say about those stories that they stopped at the bedroom door. They were very, they were very, some of them were very, the stories were very sexual arousing, but it was like as soon as the couple opened their own bedroom, that was the next story. You know that, I'm not saying they weren't a turn on to people, they were, but you know to get explicitly about who does what to whom and to what body parts and to include that in your literary effort. Or to talk about things that were a little kinky about to be a little.  I'm just talking about a little kinky, not serious SM, but it was much more accepting. And there was an explosion. And Herodicase legitimately credited with being the daughter of that cell. It's so funny because it's not a comic status. I can be still a picture of the covers perfectly. Oh really. But what's interesting is that I'm into the sexual self-help stuff. There was very much of a sideline to my way of thinking always.  I mean, it wasn't actually a sideline because it was ended up being such a big piece, but I just didn't think it was as important to me as, and it's probably because I'm not a reader of literature, even children's stories. I just, I don't read any books, full books. I rarely read one and when I do, it's nonfiction. I have, the only time I've ever read a fiction book covered a cover in the last 30, 40 years, and when I've been recovering from surgery. And I had to read like, you know,  every day because I couldn't do anything else. So I'm not a reader and I just say I don't read books, I publish them. I barely, I haven't read all the books that down there, press published. Yeah, I was gonna ask you several times, but never once they're about. I read all of Martha's book pretty much, but that was pretty impressive because that was like 500 pages. The big book of masturbation. Important book. Epic. And Lee, can you think of any unusual...  story or anecdote that you want to tell about your time there interactions with an author or production? Nothing. You know I haven't thought about this stuff for five or six years so nothing really leaps out. Tell me about the fate of down their press. Well in the of  I guess about 2004, so we'd been through yet another distributor bankruptcy, book people, and had found another whole distributor, SCB books, who seemed pretty respectable and legitimate. By then, good vibes had sort of... it was in a little bit of financial...  shakiness. There were a lot of new people coming in and some changes. We got a new CPA and they were doing the books more on a, we had been doing them on a tax basis, which is a little bit different from straight accounting. Straight accounting.  And the new accounts were saying, oh, down their presses losing so much money and so the decision at the upper levels, we had maybe 100 employees at that point. They were worker owners too. It was mostly worker owners. Not everybody was an owner at that point. There were still people on their eligibility period. Management.  had taken much stronger hold and they decided that there wasn't going to be a down there publishing program anymore. By then we had not just the books but also we had bought a small audio company. I didn't know that. Called Passion Press that we had licensed the Herodicus too and they were doing just sex books and  Good vibes, it also started a video company whose name I can't remember. That was after my time. So they decided that all those pieces of good vibrations wouldn't work anymore, wouldn't exist. And then a couple of years later by then I had left the company, they sold it to sold the...  the press to SCB distributors and I mean the information I got about all that came through Joni and I don't really have any first-hand knowledge. So they bought the list, they bought the name, they bought the titles, they bought, they bought the there was one copyrighted name and down the press was I guess a copyright that's not the right word trademark and the Herodic is also a list trademark. Okay so they bought the trademarks.  and they bought the titles. They bought the publishing rights to all the books. And did they keep which books did they keep in print? None of mine. Not a single one of mine, although they talked about it. What's interesting about what happened is that they had a guy who was sort of their representative for Northern California. And he decided to go on sabbatical. But he engineered this whole thing before he left. And then when he came back from sabbatical, he quit the company. So the people down at SCB Patrick, whatever's name was, or uno less.  So he basically fixed his deal sort of against, and just sort of without the buy-in from the main his bosses, go down in LA. And so the whole thing went through and then it was like, we have this publishing company, what are we going to do with this? And the main guy down there didn't know, I didn't have a clue. He was a distributor. He was a distributor. He had never published before. Well, that's, I don't know, I shouldn't say it never published before. But they were book distributors, you know, about publishing. And more than the people who are still dead, goodbye.  vibrations, no, about publishing. Once Lee left, or it was let go, I should say. She made it sound like she left voluntarily. She didn't. And her getting rid of her was handled extremely badly from what I've heard. It's embarrassing, even think about it. But they decided to continue exhibitionism. Exhibitionism for the Shy by Carol Queen, anal pleasure and health from the Jack Moron rewrote again.  I think for them. I don't know if anyone is out working on it now. And what else? I don't even know. And then they took... Maybe I'm trying to remember what it decided to do. Did they take any of the Herodicus? Did they do Herodicus 6? No. Did you repub, read, read, read, put it out? 6. No, I don't know. See what happens? There were some of the books that they took boxes and boxes of...  the books of the ones that they were going to continue distributing. But they were not going to distribute even any of my books. At first, oh yeah, they were going to do female yet because it was such a good, so the company had three big selling books. There were others, but the three big selling ones, anal pleasure and health, which resulted in Brazilian copy since it was a female yet, it was done really well even after the first, you know, for many years it had done really well. And kids first book about sex, ironically out of another market.  which I didn't allow them to be longer, so the cumulative was. And there may have been a couple others I don't remember, but those were the three. And my only one of mine that was included in that batch was they didn't want to do the kids book. And they were there, almost gone. And then same female was gone. And they had this fabulous reputation. They were going to do a female yet first. And they decided not to, because they figured it was going to be too expensive to print it. They just want to do something, make it.  It was a color book and they had to get printed in Hong Kong and they didn't think they could get much money. The other thing about female is that I am my lover. It's another one that they rejected because they said, these days you can go on the porn, you can get all the images you want free of people in masturbating or pictures of women's gendels, whatever you want, you can get it. Why would anybody buy a book of that stuff anymore? And I think they're actually right, probably. I'm not saying that wouldn't go if it was published. This break didn't break.  new book of all was done. I'll show this to you after the interview. But anyway, I think it would have gone still and I can tell you that the few copies of the email, I acquired a handful of hurt copies mostly. They gave all of my, they actually tried to sell the books that were going to be shredded to the authors of them and or the editors of them and they initially they were going to charge them like 50% of cover or third you know, I mean 30% of cover.  and somebody said, wait a second, you have to sell these at remainder prices. So they reduced it a little bit, or somewhat. And like Martha bought two boxes of her books and people bought. And then the rest of them went to the shredder. In my case, they didn't charge me anything. They let me take all I wanted. But I didn't have room. I took 200 and 250 copies of I Am My Lover, First Person Sexual, which is selling for, you know, a dollar on Amazon now, or less. And a whole bunch of play.  books for men and a few playbooks for women. And there were no kids first books. Are you keeping all these? That I in my storage area in the basement. And I actually last year in the year before I sold a few of the hurt, slightly hurt, females on Amazon for $75 to $85 each. And they were the cheapest ones. Among the ones that were available, they go up to $900. There's crazy stuff on use books in Amazon.  looked at it but the books and and like a kid's first book you can buy one for you know $350. I had such a touching thing happened in the just last week I got this letter from a woman who's they they cheer has been adopted a pretty seriously artistic boy and seven years old and they really want to give him some sex education and he's gotten into this wonderful school maybe he's not just an ordinary some important disability  And now they found a wonderful school for him. And oh, I take that back. He doesn't have a disability. He had an absolutely horrendous chaotic childhood where he was majorly sexually abused and physically abused. That's what it is. And both of his therapists and his teacher said, you've got to get this book of kids first book about sex for your son. And she went on Amazon. And the cheapest one of the kids first book about sex as a hundred.  and $25, but she ordered it anyway because she didn't know that she might be able to get one somewhere else. And fortunately, fortunately, I say, the company that had advertised it didn't have any. It wasn't really there. So Amazon got back to and said, we can't. And then she found my name somehow as she corresponded with me and I said, I'm sending you the PDF tomorrow because that one, she was thrilled. And I had this wonderful conversation with her all.  her experience with her son. I actually gave him some support. She said like the counselors really want to... something about I suggested that they that they talked to him. They're talking about sex thing and getting him to talk more about his sexual abuse and stuff that they counselors interview the parents separately. Parents with the kids separately because it's different when the two parents have... anyway, some other music... oh that's a great suggestion I'll mention that to my therapist. I think she'll agree. Anyway we talked about a lot of it and I just want to do a VEM Crawett thing.  out they live in Washington DC and I'm going there for a conference in June and I said I'd really like to meet you and she said oh that's great let me know where you're staying along by trover to Dan or it's like it was just but just hearing her story was so touching and how important that book was for them to get so she is just thrilled. That book should be out again I mean the PDF is so wonderful but it's also nice for kids to hold. Well it's gonna be available for free downloads so people can print it out. Yeah I know I would love it if you can find me.  publisher. I'll be back in a minute. I am making the round. So there you go. Yeah. And I, the playbook, it's nice too. And what I'm gonna put, I'm probably gonna put the kids first book on Kindle. So people could use it that way and hold with their kids. But we're not gonna do that with the playbook. And we're just gonna have a little note that says, there's a playbook. And this is what it is. And go to this website and we put the URL on the Kindle. And people can go and they can download and print it out because it's no good.  to the right of it. And Lee, do you want to talk about your departure from down there, press? No, no. And do you think, as Joni just said, anything that you want to add to in terms of what happened with the books going to the distributor? Is there anything else that you think you want to add? Well, as I said, I wasn't there when it all happened.  And by then I sort of, I think, distanced myself anyway. They didn't feel quite so much like my babies anymore. Yes. So, you know, it happened. I was sad. I remember standing in a basement when they were, I was saying, and he book that doesn't go with you, Joni, in this batch of books that somebody's gonna bring over to your house. Are going to the shredder. Thousands of books. Several thousand books. Yeah. It was really hard to take books.  burning. It was like after 2001 the whole industry changed. The internet took off. People weren't, wears up to then. I think everybody had been sort of open and exploring and excited about, you know, new things. Like, what can I find out about sex? People kind of shut down after 9-11 and I came up with a little thing.  they wanted community, they wanted communication, they wanted continuity, they wanted values, you know, like core values. And good vibes, I think, was sort of going off in this, you know, how can we attract new customers, we have to get edgy or an edgy or, you know, they've gotten a little bit away from that core audience of...  quote, middle America, middle age women in their 40s maybe who didn't have access to all the clubs and whatnot in San Francisco and they didn't maybe they didn't necessarily want that. I don't think they're getting a vibrator was exciting. I don't think they went away from it as much as they went towards more edgy stuff and it got to be a bigger and bigger part of what they were doing. They also started selling novelties and stuff that you know never would have been sold there on the first point. Mm hmm.  So I think, I mean, we had been, there was a sex book club and we had been selling, you know, a couple thousand copies of one of the books to them pretty regularly and we got down to our last 500 copies and I needed to reorder and it's like at that time, print on demand hadn't quite kicked in. We still needed to order four or five thousand copies to get a decent unit cost. So I ordered my...  5,000 copies and then they stopped ordering the book. So here we are stuck with you know a few thousand copies of this title. It's amazing. You know it was they just I'm sure that was one of the books that went to the the shredder in in quantity. There was actually one of the things just the timing was so crying but I think at that point there was different sense of.  And it was shortly after that that book people went under and there's one other other presses in the sex area started folding. I mean part of it was that they were slammed by book people losing, going bankrupt. But things just started to fall apart. There wasn't that sense of enthusiasm and energy I think.  Yeah, there was one of the little story about a CV, the distributors. I, at one point, I said something to Erin Silverman, the guy at a CV. I'm a little surprised that you didn't consider redoing good vibrations to the complete guy, the vibrators. I thought it was actually a little out of date and I was hoping they would give me some money to work with Anne Whitten alone, helping me with it the last time to help update it even though she was now in public health school or something.  trying to support a kid as a single parent and may not have had much time. But anyway, I was willing to actually redo it. And they signed a contract with me. They were supposed to do a contract with me to do it. And they agreed to give me $200 extra or something or $300 extra to get some help doing it. And I was not thrilled about the way I was being treated by them. But they sent me a contract that was obviously I grabbed from somewhere else. It was full of things.  were not appropriate for this. And they hadn't bothered you even to change the language. And so I made tons of changes in it, and I initialed all of them. And I sent it back to Aaron, and he agreed. And he signed it without initialing all those places himself. And I said, I'm not willing to do this without you. And in the meantime, I had found somebody on Craigslist who would scan the book for me so I could work from a. I said, you don't have to, when you do a scan, optical, character scan.  They're a lot of mistakes, but I said, I don't care. I'm going to be rewriting the whole thing anyway. Just do it. So I'll have something basic to work from. Yeah. I think I paid this guy $35, and he came, picked it up, and brought it back to me. It was very inexpensive, because he didn't have to process it. All he had to do was just scan it and get it to me. But anyway, and I had done that. And then Aaron, I called him on the phone, or something. I said, yeah, you've given me back. Send me back this contract, but all the places I initialed you haven't touched. To do them all.  recently. And he said, I don't know, this is just too much trouble. I think I'm just, I'm just not, I don't know, but he'd want to do this anymore. And I basically said, screw it. I didn't really want to revise it anyway. And he had sent me an advance. So I sent his, I sent back the contract with void written on every page because he, he, he, he, he, he,  signed it at that point and I wrote my every page and I sent him I I sent him I subtracted the dollars I spent for the that I'd put out for the scan is big thirty five dollars and maybe it was forty five or fifty five I don't remember I said this is an expense I had I'm not going to send it back to and I sent him the rest of it back with a check and I was in to it and good vibrations a complete guy to vibrators is dead although they seem to keep finding more copies at good vibrations and at one point they weren't  hang royalties at all to any of us who had books with them. And David Steinberg and I both complained about that a lot. I don't know if the other authors did. And finally, they just picked a dollar amount and they said, just count this as royalties on any books that we still have. And you have to sign that this is, I know, it was not very much. It was a couple hundred dollars and three hundred dollars. And that's it. And they wouldn't tell me how many copies they had, which is really, they should have paid royalties on every single one  They could have waited till they sold them, but then they... So I felt like I got ripped out. I didn't have any choice though. They've made so much. I'm good vibrations, complete guide to vibrate. I don't know if that's very popular anymore. It's such a skimpy little book and it's so dated. It was a very comforting little book to people who were using vibrators for the first time. I wish it had stayed up. It's like, you know, it was one of my real babies. It was one of the ones I...  did really early. Even that wasn't hand-wettered anymore. So what year officially did down their press close? It's not closed. It's still called down their press. It's called down their press. 2000, seven, I think. Something like that. Seven. I don't even know. I don't know. You want me to remember dates? Forget it. I don't do dates. Yeah, I don't do. My mother and father died without me ever knowing their birthdays. I knew my mother's in the genre.  my files in February. That's about all it got. Are there things I'm sure there's a lot more we could talk about but is there anything that stands out as something we haven't discussed that you want to go on the record? I don't think so. Should we do that in unison again? I don't think so. Thank you so much for talking about the history of the press and more. Thank you. Last year  Getting into it before everybody disappears. That's a pretty long list. I want everybody to know before hanging out that my sweet little dog has been sitting quietly on my lap sleeping most of the time. Perfect. And this is what everybody makes. Everybody think that he's a sweet little little little little dog. Because he's not barking. He was wonderful. Right. Very good dog.